Dota 2 is a multiplayer team computer game in which two teams of 5 battle it out. Each player can pick from one of 111 heroes (as of writing), with on the order of 10^16 possible matchup combinations. The publisher of Dota 2, Valve, makes match information available to be called from their API. In this repository are three (really two, but sort of three) angles I used to look at Dota 2 data.
Since each of the heroes in Dota 2 is unique in its own way, there is a widespread belief that in different situations, some heroes are better than others, effectively behaving in a rock-paper-scissors sort of manner. The stage where the heroes are picked is called the "draft", and there is a widespread belief that the outcome of a game is effectively determined by the draft. I created my own mathematical model to attempt to predict the winner of a game based purely on the draft by looking at empirical winrates of heroes by themselves, winrates of heroes when on a team with specific other heroes, and winrates of heroes when playing against specific heroes on the other team. My model has a promising amount of success, roughly 65%. This model can be found at: https://github.com/tigreryder/DotaAnalysis/blob/master/Model_for_Predicting_Dota_2_Winner.ipynb
While coming up with my own mathematial model to determien draft winners was interesting, I also wanted to utilize some existing regression techniques. Considering that win/loss is a two-state switch, logistic regression made sense, resulting in roughly a 65% correct prediction rate. That model can be found at: https://github.com/tigreryder/DotaAnalysis/blob/master/Logistic_Regression_for_Predicting_Dota_2_Winner.ipynb
I was also curious in looking at my own statistics to see how I've done at this video game, how I could improve, and how I've done when playing with friends. https://github.com/tigreryder/DotaAnalysis/blob/master/Win_Rates_Against_Match_Length_and_Prior_Match_Results.ipynb
Use dota_request for requesting match data (may take a few hours depending on number of matches); will save data locally so that it does not need to be requested in the future unless more matches have been played
Note: For mining the matches of a specific player, PlayerID refers to a player's Steam 3 ID for both calling the API (to request a specific player's matches) and for data sorting purposes (player participants listed by ID). Steam 3 IDs can be found using steamidfinder.com by searching the player's name.
